REQUIREMENTS
------------

This software requires Bison version 2.3 or higher as it uses the new
c++ parser model. The c++ model was introduced in 2.1 but appears to
be broken in that release. The Trolltech QT toolkit version 3.3.x or
higher is also required if you plan to build the client front end
applications.

PLATFORM NOTES
--------------

The only platforms that have been tested at present are FreeBSD i386 and
amd64. This software also compiles on NetBSD but does not work as there
are threading issues. For FreeBSD amd64 builds, you must first specify
the -fPIC compiler option in the C_FLAGS environment variable before
attempting to compile. For example, from a bash shell you enter the
following command ...

export C_FLAGS=-fPIC

For this software to do anything useful, you will need to make sure
your kernel has been built with IPSEC support. For FreeBSD, this is
either the KAME ipsec stack or the fast IPSEC stack. For example, to
include support for fast IPSEC you could include ...

# IP Security
device          crypto
options         FAST_IPSEC

Please see the FreeBSD handbook for more information on compiling and
installing a custom kernel.

As of FreeBSD 6.2, NATT kernel support has not yet been committed to
the main line source. However, Yvan who is an ipsec-tools maintainer
has posted a patch that has been tested with this software. The last
known location for the FreeBSD 6.x patch is at the following url ...

http://ipsec-tools.sourceforge.net/freebsd6-natt.diff

Before this software can be compiled with NATT support, this patch
must be applied to your kernel. To apply the patch, you need to
copy the patch file into the /usr/src/sys directory and apply the
patch using the following command ...

patch < freebsd6-natt.diff

After which, you will need to add the following option to your kernel ...

options		IPSEC_NAT_T

Next, you will need to build and install the new kernel and perform a
buildworld and installworld. Please see the FreeBSD handbook for more
information on compiling and installing a custom kernel and userland.

COMPILING
---------

The build system is very basic at the moment. The make files use BSD style
rules so the project will need to be re-tooled before it will build on
other platforms. The root make file is located in the unix directory. To
build and install the ike daemon, enter the following commands using the
root login ...

cd unix
make daemon
make install-daemon

To install both the daemon and the client front end applications, enter
the following commands using the root login ...

cd unix
mske
make install

OPTIONS
-------

A few build options may be specified. Here is a brief list ...

DEBUG	preserve debug symbols
NATT	enable natt support ( requires kernel support )
LDAP	enable ldap support ( requires openldap 2.2 or higher client )

For example, to build iked with all options, you would specify ...

cd unix
make -DDEBUG -DNATT -DLDAP
make install

SUPPORT
-------

Please visit the Shrew Soft website at the following url for details ...

http://www.shrew.net
